When would you want to use a remote repository rather than keeping all your work local?
whenever something new and additional worth saving addedd to the local repo
git remote = to see all known remote git repo on github
git remove -v
git remote add origin linkhttp = provide git a remote repo with link, with local name to that repo origin for easier access
git push origin master = where to push n which branchname

Why might you want to always pull changes manually rather than having Git automatically stay up-to-date with your remote repository?
doing it manually means we keeps repo's update to with relevant update and which may have effect on remaining repos for other contributors. Also it adds exra overhead for automatic update and we would need costant internet conection for that.

remember to cd into to the dir else u wont see the desired result for 'git remote -v' output

Describe the differences between forks, clones, and branches. When would you use one instead of another?
forks hellps u point to authors repo so others would know whos repo u using.
clones make a local copy of repo, could be forked, ur own github repo or any local one.
branch allows u to make commit or create another repo on same local dir/machine(git or github) so as to add experimental or new features not neccessary for the work/project.

more
git fetch origin update local copy of the remote. if local copy isnt in syn n ahead of remote, then new origin branch will be updated.
if both copy r out of syn, new update on both local n remote, then git pull origin/master master will do 2 actions, git fetch origin/master then git merge origin/master master
origin/master means origin pointing to remote repo n its master branch of that repo if there r more than one.

What is the benefit of having a copy of the last known state of the remote stored locally?
u always upto-date with whats going on with ur repo between ur collaborators.
fast foward merge of a & b means either of them should be able to access other as its ancestors. It simply means that git has merged the local copy with remote one , if either of one them updates since last sync then fast forward is possible.

